The thing that we're missing there's
a little more nuance to saving a file,
we save your file behaves
a little bit differently, right?
For instance, if you open a file and you
hit save, you do not wanna be asked where
to save the file,
you simply wanna save the file, right?
But if it's a brand new file and
you have not saved it yet,
you do wanna be asked where to save it,
right?
There are also some little
things that we come to know and
love over time about
a given operating system.
So for instance, if I take this same file
and I open it with a native Mac app.
There are some things that you will like,
maybe you never noticed it.
Maybe you don't use a Mac, but
there are some little things
that you might've noticed.
One, can see the name of
the file in the window.
That seems good.
Two, is if I hit command, I can actually
see where it is and I can actually
take this and have a reference to
the file that I can drag around, right?
This is again, this is a native Mac app.
This is not an electron app.
Next off is if I modify the file,
I can see very subtly that
there's a little dot in here telling
me that the file has been modified and
this gets a little, the opacity goes
down cuz it's not a saved file.
And then upon saving the file,
that goes away, right?
And so those are, again,
the little pieces of things that we
come to expect on the UX of a given
application that we can and should bring.
And Electron gives you the ability
to do all this stuff but
the nuances of your application are as
such you have to kind of instruction on
what this stuff means cuz there are some
things that doesn't, all right?
Like if you look on the GitHub app,
that's not there but
what is this unsaved file and I guess
they could do stuff there but they don't.
In VS code they've done
a different pattern but you
still got that little in the upper left
corner on an unsaved file change, right?
And so, what you choose to do depends on
the nuances of your application, right?
But generally speaking, electron
gives you all the APIs to do that it
just doesn't know what you
wanted to do unless you tell it.
So we have to go ahead and do that, cool.
So now with saving a file we
should have the opportunity to
slay some of those beasts of the OS
integration piece, cuz like I said before,
a big especially in the new security model
and I like Tron New, is a strong word.
The modern security model in electron,
a lot of this is this
inter-process communication dance.
The other part is like this
kind of OS integration piece.
So we're saving a file.
We encounter some new
ones in there as well.
And so we have to kind of
deal with it there as well.
So let's say,
now that we want to have, save file,
and save file, it's really just
gonna be at this point the content.
And I might regret that and need to change
it but we'll start with that for now.
So we'll have the ability to save
a file and we'll give it the,
SaveFile should be the content,
which is a string.
Cool.
It seems right.
I'm just wondering why that thing didn't
work before, but we'll figure it out.
Cool.
And so we've got that in place as we have
the content and you'll see it invoke
there as well, but we actually will
just start by sending a message.
We'll do IPC renderer.
And the pattern here that we're doing is
like IPC renderer is enclosure scope.
It's not available to that
window object at all.
All right,
the context bridge is in closure scope.
The only thing that's available
are these four methods which are being
very specific.
There's no way to like send
a message from the renderer process.
If we loaded a third party script or
something along those lines,
there's no way to send something on
a channel that we are unaware of and
this is not gonna get
you all the way there.
We have CSP headers in here, right?
Like untrusted third party scripts
of regular web security things also
make total sense here and
these are present in our HTML file and
you should have them as well.
Don't trust arbitrary code
loaded to call whatever, right?
We've got this in place, but
these are the kind of core pieces kind of
give us a security posture here as well.
Cool, so we've got the save file and
we do some of the very
same pieces that we had before on
the render on the main process.
So we had the export HTML,
we'll just go here and
give ourselves new ones,
which is we need a show Save Dialog,
which is going to have take the browser
window just as it did before.
You can see it up there.
Now nope, lowercase browser window.
Doesn't know that's the function yet so
I got to help IntelliSense along a little
bit there with the browser window and
we know that it will take the content and
maybe a file path, we'll see.
Cool, so we've got that in place and
now a lot of this is very
similar to what we had before.
We do know that it will
be a marked down file,
we do know that we all the same stuff
that we typed previously is true, and
then we get finally to the safe file
with a file path and the content.
Now this is interesting.
So this is where the first
nuance comes that we had before,
which is we might already
have a file path, right?
It's just maybe the content
that we need in this case.
So, it could be possible that
how we choose to do this
might be in the opposite
direction as well, right?
Which is, if we don't have a file path,
then we need to keep it available.
Now, how do you store
where the file path is?
You could store it in the browser.
That feels kind of weird, right?
Cuz it's not the one that needs it and
then you can pass it back every time.
What we might choose to do is like
keep track of what the current file
is in the main process.
We know when they open a file, right?
And we know if it's the first time
that they've saved a file, right?
And that we don't know what
the file path is, right?
But then if they save a file,
we then know what the file path is.
So we can kind of handle all of this here.
Otherwise we're gonna have to
do a lot of back and forth and
it makes sense to store it here now.
Again, with one window, it is a lot
easier than with multiple windows.
But the answer to that one is usually just
keep some kinda data structure that keeps
track of the windows and
any state that they need.
You can go anywhere from just a simple
JavaScript object all the way up to some
kinda larger data store or a pattern
like Redux isn't always tied to React.
You can use it here as well.
So let's keep track just
as a top level variable,
we'll just say we got a type,
which is MarkdownFile.
And that's gonna have
some amount of content.
And the reason why keep
track of the content is,
I wanna know what the content was the last
time we interacted with the file system.
I need this because it will
let me know whether or
not the file has unsafe changes or not.
Which is very simple.
If current content equals previous
content, no unsaved changes.
If they are different,
then they're different.
So we'll also keep track of the file path.
And since we might not have one
originally, we'll make these
both optional on the type and
we'll just say that let current file,
Markdown file will say that
content is an empty string cuz
that will be what is
technically in the browser.
If you do a dot value on an empty
text area, it's an empty string.
So we're keeping track of that for
a moment.
And file path will just keep as undefined.
I could theoretically just not defined
on this object and get the same effect,
but I'm gonna be nice to myself and
actually see the shape of the file.
So now we know, now we get a little
more nuance down here, right?
We go to save the file,
it's going to be a little bit of
a different API because we only
need to show that safe dialog,
if we need to figure out
where to save the file.
If they've opened the file or
if they've previously saved the file,
we know where to save the file,
we don't need to show them that, right?
So in this case,
I might just do a return filePath, right?
And so
now theoretically we can ask for it.
I don't necessarily care
about the content anymore.
So, it should be a little bit different
than expert cuz it's got a lot more
intricacies we always wanted to show.
It was very similar to the file open
dialogue before which is if you
say open a file, what file, right?
If you say export a file, we might
wanna export it over and over again.
For save,
it's a different kind of UX around there,
and so
we need to be cognizant of that as well.
And so now we've got the save file,
which will probably take the content,
which is a string.
And then we can say
something like filePath,
Is, CurrentFile.filePath,
or go get me one, right?
And so we'll have either one
of those two kind of in place.
Yeah, cool.
I don't love this.
I don't need that right there.
Cuz we've got file path,
which is one way or the other,
theoretically gonna be there cuz we could
theoretically get undefined from this one.
So we will have to check one
more time if it's there.
But ideally one way or the other we
should have gotten one cuz I get,
I don't think you can get totally all
the way here but you could cancel it.
So we'll say, if there's no file path,
don't save my file, right?
Otherwise we can do the Did I get that,
stop with that?
IntelliSense is good most of the time.
Cool, so we'll write to that
file path with the content, and
we should have that in place.
So I deviated from the plan a little bit.
So let's find out if this works.
So we know that we will have a save file,
message that we
send along the way, and
we will seek to save the file.
Let's go ahead and find out if that
does what we think it's going to do.
I think that I probably.
You notice that the nice
kind of Copilot help
here is there's also
this get focused window,
which will go ahead and
try to get the front most window.
It'll work.
It's not necessarily what
I want in this case, so
I'm gonna do the same
pattern that I had before.
Which is to always pass
in a browser window.
And to be clear, this is fine.
There's nothing wrong with this.
There might be intricacies if I
had a multi-window application.
Do I have the right window?
I mostly, for my own sanity,
this point care about consistency
across my API so far.
So then we know that the browser window is
gonna be the one that sent the message.
I feel like that is always gonna make me
happier, so I'm gonna do that instead.
All right, so now we'll go and
see if we've got a current file path,
if not we'll ask for one.
If there's no file, still we're done,
we're not doing anything here,
and we should be good to go.
What is going on here?
Find out why I'm getting yelled
at here because whatever or no?
Yeah, there's no browser window,
we have nowhere to get the file
contents from Deal with that later.
I don't have a use case where I
wouldn't have a browser window.
So we'll just keep TypeScript happy.
So ideally, this should go through and
give me the effect that I'm looking for.
If not, I will have to live debug and
figure it out cuz I made
some decisions along the way
that felt right at the time and
then we'll see as I think through it,
cool.
So there'll be some other things
that we need to do here cuz we will
theoretically at that point,
has a file, needs a file path, right?
Somehow, yeah, we're getting
the file path, should be good along,
a lot of these ways and yeah,
that should do the trick for me but
as you can see, there's a lot of
confidence in my voice right now.
so we will find out together.
All right, moment of truth.
Fun fact, if you don't turn the button on,
you have an issue there as well.
I want to control that based
on that current file context.
But let's cheat for a moment cuz that
button doesn't do anything currently.
So let's get that in place as well.
Cool.
So we'll say elements I say File button.
Get that will pass it through that should
do the trick for me at this point.
We don't necessarily
need to await anything.
And then we'll also just for now,
SaveFileButton does not exist
as a save Markdown, cool.
Are you glad to not live trying
to remember, get element by IDs?
Cool, all right, so I shouldn't
need any changes at that point.
Awesome.
And now we'll go check that folder.
We've got hello and it wrote the file.
So now we can save the file,
but saving it again gets me to the same
issue where I save it over and over and
over again, that's not necessarily
what we wanted, right?
So this is where those OS integrations
that we're talking about become kind of
important.
And we need to figure out how to tell our
browser window about all of these things.
So begins to feel a little bit
more like a native application.
So let's go ahead and take a look at that.